[THEME MUSIC]
>> RAF Bentwaters Woodbridge
Investigation has been hard
to pin down to one version of
events because no one involved
seems to have the same memory,
even if standing right next
to each other, as Staff Sergeant
Jim Penniston and Airman First
Class John Burroughs were
in Rendlesham Forest after
midnight, December 26, 1980.
Each man has different memories.
Staff Sergeant Jim Penniston
was the Charlie flight security
supervisor for flight operations
at RAF Bentwaters Woodbridge,
and investigated crash sites.
As he walked around this almost
nine-foot long, six-foot high
black triangular
craft in awe, he
thought that it looked
like solid glass
with glowing circles
and other patterns
moving in its glassy skin.
But Sergeant Penniston was also
confused, because he thought,
if it were some kind
of flying machine,
it should be made
of metal, not glass.
He sketched the black triangular
craft in his notebook and says,
he also took many photographs
of the triangle from all sides.
Those photographs had
never surfaced publicly.
But a captain Mike
Verano was supposed
to have gathered canisters
of film, photos, documents,
and Colonel Charles
Halt's audiotape
that he recorded on
December 28, 1980
when he and a team
of military personnel
investigated beams and
lights in Rendlesham Forest.
Those canisters of
evidence were allegedly
flown to the Third Air Force
in Ramstein, Germany, where
General Charles
A. Gabriel served
until June 1982 as
commander-in-chief,
United States Air
Force in Europe
and commander of Allied
Air Forces, Central Europe.
The assumption is that he saw
everything in the canisters
but kept the policy
of denial and cover-up
in place, without ever talking
about the Rendlesham Forest
mystery on the record.
General Gabriel died
in September 2003.
Sergeant Penniston says that
he also dragged his fingers
along the smooth, warm-to-touch
black glassy surface
until he felt raised
symbols spanning
about three feet of the craft
near one of its corners.
As soon as his fingers
touched the symbols,
he received a
telepathic download
of 0's and 1's, binary code,
that filled his mind's eye
and would not leave until
back at his Ipswich home,
where he wrote the binary
code down in his notebook.
And according to
Sergeant Penniston,
he never showed the
numbers in his notebook
to anyone, not at the time and
not even to John Burroughs.
John doesn't remember seeing Jim
or the black triangular craft
or the camera or hearing
anything from Sergeant
Penniston about receiving
a download of 0's and 1's
after touching the symbols
and writing them down
in a notebook.
In fact, none of us
knew about or had
seen binary code in Jim
Penniston's notebook
until October 2, 2010, when
John, Jim, and I were working
with the "Ancient
Aliens" series produced
by Prometheus Entertainment
for the History Channel.
At the end of the day,
when interviews were done
and the crew was
about to wrap up,
Jim asked John if
he had ever showed
him the 0's and
1's in his notebook
that Jim then pulled
out of a briefcase.
John and I looked at the several
pages of 0's and 1's, and John
seemed genuinely shocked, saying
he had never seen the notebook
numbers before.
And that's when Jim Penniston
said that for 30 years
he had not shown or discussed
the binary code with anyone.
The "Ancient Aliens"
producers and I
agreed that we would each
investigate the binary code
pages to see if they
could be translated.
I worked with American retired
astronomer and telescope maker
Michael Reed, PhD, who
had constructed telescopes
at the University of
Arizona using standard ASCII
7-bit and 8-bit code where
combinations of seven
and eight groups of 0's and 1's
can be translated to numbers,
letters, and pronunciation.
For example, on the top line
of this ASCII code chart,
the number 0 equals 0, 0,
1, 1, a space, 0, 0, 0, 0.
And to the far right,
the lower case letter
m equals 0, 1, 1, 0,
space, 1, 1, 0, 1.
Working each page at
a time and marking off
the string of numbers
in ASCII code,
words emerged on the
right side, which
put together look like this--
exploration of humanity,
possibly the numbers 3,
3, 3, or 6, 6, 6, and then
the number 8, 1, 0, 0.
Continuing the
binary code, there
is a latitude and
longitude, followed
by the word continuous.
The latitude and longitude
shown here is 52, space,
0942532 north latitude, and
1, space, 3131269 longitude.
Because Penniston's string of
0's and 1's in his notebook
had no designation for
where decimal points should
be in any of the latitudes
and longitudes given,
this latitude and longitude
is only one interpretation,
and more about that in a minute.
After the word
continuous are the words
for planetary advance.
Then comes fourth coordinate,
continuous question mark,
all caps CEPR, question
mark, and the word before.
The last letter E of the word
before are the final 0, 1, 0,
0, space, 0, 1, 0, 1 that
Staff Sergeant Penniston wrote
on this page of his notebook--
exploration of humanity,
8,100, latitude, longitude,
question mark, continuous
for planetary advance,
fourth coordinate, continuous,
question mark, and the word
before.
Since there were no
decimal designators
in any of the stream of 0's and
1's, the latitude and longitude
could be any number of 24
possible geographic options
on earth.
Dr. Reed picked
one that he thought
was logical, town
center, Woodbridge.
The idea was that if the black
triangle were an unmanned drone
with some kind of
mission on earth,
it would have to constantly
be sending its location
and receiving instructions
from its maker.
The Woodbridge, England town
hall latitude and longitude
is close to one
of the binary code
latitude, longitude options.
Another interpretation by the
"Ancient Aliens" TV production,
using a different and arbitrary
placement of the decimal point,
ended up further west from
Woodbridge in the Atlantic
Ocean off the coast of Ireland,
where old maps like this one
from 1570 labeled an island as
Brasil, spelled B-R-A-S-I-L,
also known as Hy-Brasil,
highlighted by a yellow circle
next to it.
The last documented
sighting of Hy-Brasil
was in 1872 when author TJ
Westropp and several companions
literally saw the island
appear and then vanish.
This was Mr. Westropp's third
view of the Irish island.
But on this trip, he had brought
his mother and some friends
to verify its existence
when, for reasons unknown,
the small island disappeared
before their eyes.
Sergeant Penniston
also deliberately
held back from the public
other pages of binary code
in his notebook, until 2011.
And then he released these
other geographic locations
that he said were also encoded
in his telepathic binary
download.
They included Caracol,
Belize, Sedona, Arizona,
the Great Pyramid in Giza,
Egypt, the Nazca Lines in Peru,
Taishan Qu in China, the
portal at the temple of Apollo
in Naxos, Greece, and
these strange words,
eyes of your eyes.
And then that word origin
with a latitude and longitude
which could be
Hy-Brasil or the town
center of Woodbridge, England,
or 22 other locations on earth.
The origin year 8100--
does that mean year 8100?
From the 21st
century, that is not
40,000 years in
the future, which
is a time frame that
Jim Penniston thought
might be true to that black
triangle in the forest.
But perhaps the number
8,100 in the alien world
of other dimensions and
point-to-point travel
has a different context.
What does this all mean?
Penniston told us that
a few weeks after his
and John's December 26, 1980
light encounters in Rendlesham
Forest, that he was ordered
to do a sodium pentothal
hypnosis by US and UK
intelligence agents.
The agents seemed to already
know about lights transmitting
binary code.
And they told Penniston
they knew that he was not
telling them everything.
After that hypnosis,
Penniston worried
that the drug-induced
hypnosis session
had manipulated his mind or
they tried to erase his memory.
And he wanted to remember
what happened more clearly.
14 years later, Jim
Penniston contacted
doctor and hypnotherapist
Sharon Grossman in Illinois
to see if he could
find out more.
Staff Sergeant Jim
Penniston's interrogators
at RAF Bentwaters
Woodbridge already
seemed to have prior knowledge
about glowing lights, craft,
symbols, and binary code.
Jim's hypnosis
session to find out
what they got from him in
that pentothal hypnosis
was on September 10, 1994
with Sharon Grossman.
In these next excerpts,
even though Jim
insists he had not told anyone
about touching the raised
symbols on the craft or
getting binary transmission
into his mind, the American and
the British intelligence agents
already knew about
the symbols and wanted
Jim to tell them more.
Jim Penniston, quote, "I see
the craft, the lights dissipate.
They, the intelligence
agents, they
want to know what
symbols I'm seeing.
I don't want to tell
them, but I tell them.
They want to know
what I did next.
I said, I felt the symbols,
because they were raised.
I tell them about the
lights, white light.
They already know
about the lights.
They're asking me if
I see binary code.
I do see the binary code.
They are slowing me down."
The hypnotherapist asks,
"What's happening now.
I understand.
What do you understand
about the code?
I'm the interpreter.
They need interpreters--
the lights.
The lights-- so what
is the code saying?
You can't read these codes
unless you have an interpreter.
I understand what's
going on now.
The symbols, what do they mean?
Oh, it's information
being exchanged.
That machine, the
black triangular craft,
that's for interpreters.
There are lots of interpreters.
You are an interpreter?
Yes.
Can you interpret
that code for me?
Yes.
We'll do that now.
Explain, mission, purpose.
And the mission is?
Contact.
Do they say contact with what?
Us.
Purpose?
Research.
For?
To help them.
To help them with what?
Themselves.
They are time travelers.
They are us.
They are us from?
The future.
How far is the future?
A long time, very long time."
Penniston thinks 40,000
years in the future.
"What do they need from here?
They need something
from all interpreters.
Well, what do they need?
I'm not sure, but it has to do
with chromosomes or something
like that.
And how do they get that?
They take it.
From where?
From the other people's bodies.
Where did they take it from you?
Didn't.
But you were an interpreter?
We only interrupted.
They, the time travelers,
were interrupted.
They are having problems.
The programs-- I understand
what they are saying,
but they weren't
supposed to be there.
They are having problems.
The odds are against them.
You weren't supposed to
understand the program?
No, by touching these
things, the raised symbols
on the craft, I activated these
symbols, the 0's and the 1's.
You touch the symbols and
you set off a program?
Yes, the craft was
repairing itself.
All they wanted was a place to
stay while it repaired itself.
And by touching the symbols, you
disrupted the repair program?
I activated a binary code.
The two government
men want to know why.
They asked me if I ever
had any other encounters
with them, the lights and
the time travelers before.
I haven't.
Are they using us something
like breeding stock?
No, like band-aids.
Do they ever take fetuses?
If it is tasked, they do.
There are different
ships for tasking.
The government agents
know about this.
That's why they want to
contain the situation.
They see you as
requiring damage control?
Yes.
They see me and John
Burroughs and they're
worried about Colonel Halt.
They know all about us.
Does the government
believe what you
are saying about them
coming from the future?
Oh, yes.
This time, they,
the time travelers,
were having problems.
But they got their machine off.
They have to be out
in space to travel.
They need speed to travel.
To travel through time?
To go backwards, they
can't go forward.
They can't go into their future?
They go to their past,
it's impossible to go
into the future.
It takes too much energy.
How far into the
past can they go?
These ships can go
40,000 or 50,000 years.
They can't go back
much further, they
might not be able to get back.
Well, why do they
come back so far?
So it doesn't
affect the timeline.
The farther it is, the
better, the least effect
it has on changing the future.
They can't control it,
it's too cumbersome.
What are the intelligence
agents going to do with you?
They tell me when I was at
the East Gate with John,
they have five different
stories to tell.
It's important to
scramble dates, that
confuses and undermines the
consistency of eyewitness
testimonies, so no credibility
with the public and the media.
They're going to
give me a warning.
They tell me that I
will hurt the world.
It will breach national security
and can destroy the system,
cause wars, chaos
in the streets.
That's why it's so
important to keep it quiet.
But it doesn't
make any difference
if I talk about this story
because it's too unbelievable,"
closed quote.
When we were in
England, December 2010,
for the 30th anniversary
TV production
with "Ancient Aliens,"
John became increasingly
certain that he
and Jim Penniston
must have been further to
the south in the forest
across from the finger
of trees that juts
between the big field and
the smaller Capel Green,
where the white arrow
ends, in Rendlesham Forest
next to Capel Green
is where we explored.
And Jim Penniston began to
recall the traumatic night
long ago.
>>This is the area.
I mean, I got it.
This is recall.
It almost broke
our neck down, we
didn't know the fence was there.
That was the problem.
We thought, we'd just
cross from up here,
and then all of a
sudden we weren't
expecting the second fence.
That's what happened.
>>And so this house right
here on the other side
of this finger of trees is
the one that Halt said glowed.
>>Yeah, that did glow.
But the actual house that
we're talking with barnyards
is right down here
in front of us.
>>And now, OK, so.
>>You can't see it from here.
>>Do you think that you
guys ran out into that field
and that finger is
where the water is?
>>Yeah, and you and I
were wet because we're
running this way
across it, we're
pursuing the light
at that point.
Yeah, this is it,
I'm OK with it.
Landing site is
in here somewhere.
I don't know.
This is really puzzling.
We came up here,
hit the ground here.
And here is this berming area.
This--yeah.
We're close.
I can get it pinpointed
at the exact spot.
>>So somewhere back
in there is the spot
where you touched the
craft and the symbols.
>>Yeah, we came in
on logging route 10.
Probably didn't go as far.
The trees were different then.
>>And now the issue is, what
was the angle that you ran out
into the field?
>>Back there, I was
hoping [INAUDIBLE].
I don't know.
I don't know, I
can't determine that.
I can't determine that.
[INAUDIBLE], that's another one.
They're all over.
>>Yeah, but boy does this feels
like that [INAUDIBLE] photo.
Jim and John remembered
getting wet and cold,
but neither can remember
where that happened
until we explored
this finger of trees
and found this marshy water.
The water was about 300 feet
east of the Rendlesham Forest
site next to Capel
Green that Jim and John
felt was where they had
their close encounter.
The water is in
the finger of trees
that extends into the
farm field on the north
end of Capel Green.
And it would explain how
both men got wet around 4:00
AM on December 28, 1980, as they
ran from the forest encounter
site out into Capel
Green chasing the lights.
After midnight on
December 26, 2010,
the exact 30th anniversary of
the original first encounter
with the mysterious lights and
beams, we stayed up all night
and Jim and John walked
with the TriField meter
through the big field down to
the line of Rendlesham Forest
trees along Capel Green.
At the red circle on this
map, the TriField meter
pegged out on the
electric scale,
indicating strong
electrostatic energy.
The next night after
midnight on December 27,
I was with John and British
engineer Winston Keech
for a night watch
in Capel Green.
And this is an
infrared video frame
and the white image is the heat
given off by John and Winston.
I was running an
infrared video camera
when the two men approached
the finger of trees
with the TriField meter.
Just like the night
before, the needle
pegged out on the electric
scale at about the same place
that was only some 300 feet from
the Rendlesham Forest UFO site
of the black glassy triangle.
While John and
Winston were exploring
along the finger of trees,
they both thought that they
saw small blue lights.
Here is one of Winston's
time-lapse camera frames
that captured a
blue light moving
through trees and
anomalous orange-red lights
in front of the trees.
In this photo, Jim
and John walked
straight toward my camera from
the Rendlesham Forest site
behind them on to Capel Green.
The marshy finger of
trees is to the right.
The Capel Green field also
seems to match John Burroughs'
handwritten statement about the
December 26, 1989 night when
John and Sergeant
Penniston walked out
of Rendlesham Forest,
tripped on a wire fence,
crossed over into a small field
that would have been Capel
Green and went forward following
lights into trees where
they got wet.
So between the end of
the straight white road
and the edge of Capel
Green is the white circle
where both John and
Jim now are convinced
they encountered the lights
up close in Rendlesham Forest.
Straight east is the red circle
where the TriField meter pegged
on the electric scale after
midnight on both December
26 and December 27, 2010.
Capel Green also has the space
needed for all the light-alls,
trucks, and people that
Bentwaters Deputy Base
Commander Charles Halt
organized on December 28, 1980.
Remember that Airman
Lori Buoen and John
Trementozzi on
December 27, 1980,
after midnight, were
at the East Gate
when they both heard
on their military radio
the D-Flight Shift
Commander Bonnie Tamplin
was crying out in fear
to Master Sergeant Robert
Ball in Rendlesham Forest.
The airman knew that all the
base colonels were notified,
including Deputy Base Commander
Lieutenant Charles Halt.
And John Burroughs learned
a light had entered
Lieutenant Tamplin's vehicle,
causing her to panic so greatly
that she was relieved of duty.
We also were told that
lieutenant Tamplin never
did return to work at RAF
Bentwaters Woodbridge.
Colonel Halt told me that one
beam came down to the ground
only a few feet from
his shoes, and he
was confused about whether
that was an act of aggression
or not.
But Colonel Halt gave John
Burroughs and Sergeant Adrian
Bustinza permission to go
closer toward the lights.
Sergeant Bustinza
told John and me
that he saw a red orange
area light surround John.
And suddenly Sergeant
Bustinza was on the ground
and John Burroughs
does not remember
what happened, except
that later Bustinza told
John, quote, "the light
forced me to the ground,
and I saw the red-orange light
come over you," closed quote.
And that was the
second time in 72 hours
that Airman First
Class John Burroughs
was engulfed in bright
light and terahertz
radiation from unidentified
aerial phenomena.
Within a year of the December
1980 Rendlesham Forest light
encounters, John Burroughs,
only 21 years old, became ill
and was diagnosed with
a heart murmur, which
he did not have when he
joined the Air Force at age 18
in 1978.
30 years later, on that
anniversary TV production
in Woodbridge, none of us,
including John Burroughs,
expected that within a month of
returning to the United States,
John Burroughs would
become very ill.
Throughout 2011 to
December 18, 2013,
he was in and out of hospitals
with atrial fibrillation
problems in his heart.
By December 18, 2013, John had
to have life-saving surgery.
And the information
that saved him
came from a CIA
medical doctor who
knew that the UFO-UAP phenomenon
emits terahertz frequencies
that can manipulate human
minds and damage human tissues,
including human hearts.
This is Linda Moulton Howe.
Please stay tuned
to my "Truth Hunter"
series on Gaia for more
surprises about our universe,
this solar system, and
the planet we live on.
[THEME MUSIC]